graph/README_graph.md, before:

# 📊 Knowledge Graph Builder from Retail DB Schema

This module is responsible for extracting the database schema from `retail.db` and converting it into a **knowledge graph** in **Neo4j**. It forms the backbone for enabling **GraphRAG-based SQL generation** in later phases.

---

## 📁 Folder Structure
graph/
├── graph_utils.py # Extracts schema: tables, columns, foreign keys
├── load_graph.py # Loads schema into Neo4j as knowledge graph

How It Works

1. graph_utils.py
Connects to retail.db

Extracts:

All table names

Column names, types, primary keys

Foreign key relationships

Returns schema as a Python dictionary

2. load_graph.py
Connects to Neo4j at bolt://localhost:7687

Clears old graph (optional)

Creates nodes:

(:Table {name})

(:Column {name, type, pk})

Creates relationships:

(:Table)-[:HAS_COLUMN]->(:Column)

(:Column)-[:FOREIGN_KEY]->(:Column)


How to Run
Install Neo4j software (https://neo4j.com/download/neo4j-desktop/?edition=desktop&flavour=winstall64&release=2.0.1&offline=false)
Open and Create Instance using the name "GrpahDB" and password as "Parthib@0103"
Then in vs code run python load_graph.py, output: ✅ Knowledge graph loaded to Neo4j.

After that go to query and run the following cypher to check if it's working:
Example Cypher Queries (Neo4j Browser)

// View all tables
MATCH (t:Table) RETURN t;

// View columns of each table
MATCH (t:Table)-[:HAS_COLUMN]->(c:Column)
RETURN t.name, collect(c.name);

// View foreign keys
MATCH (c1:Column)-[:FOREIGN_KEY]->(c2:Column)
RETURN c1.name, c2.name;

Then if you want to see the visual representation of the Graph(database), then go to the following link (ensure the GraphDB instance is running in Neo4j): http://localhost:7474, Credentials: neo4j / password (Parthib@0103)

Commit message:

Added a line in README_graph.md file

graph/README_graph.md, after:

# 📊 Knowledge Graph Builder from Retail DB Schema

This module is responsible for extracting the database schema from `retail.db` and converting it into a **knowledge graph** in **Neo4j**. It forms the backbone for enabling **GraphRAG-based SQL generation** in later phases.

---

## 📁 Folder Structure
graph/
├── graph_utils.py # Extracts schema: tables, columns, foreign keys
├── load_graph.py # Loads schema into Neo4j as knowledge graph

How It Works

1. graph_utils.py
Connects to retail.db

Extracts:

All table names

Column names, types, primary keys

Foreign key relationships

Returns schema as a Python dictionary

2. load_graph.py
Connects to Neo4j at bolt://localhost:7687

Clears old graph (optional)

Creates nodes:

(:Table {name})

(:Column {name, type, pk})

Creates relationships:

(:Table)-[:HAS_COLUMN]->(:Column)

(:Column)-[:FOREIGN_KEY]->(:Column)


How to Run
Install Neo4j software (https://neo4j.com/download/neo4j-desktop/?edition=desktop&flavour=winstall64&release=2.0.1&offline=false)
Open and Create Instance using the name "GrpahDB" and password as "Parthib@0103"
Then in vs code run python load_graph.py, output: ✅ Knowledge graph loaded to Neo4j (make sure before this you have the retail.db file in your db folder)

After that go to query and run the following cypher to check if it's working:
Example Cypher Queries (Neo4j Browser)

// View all tables
MATCH (t:Table) RETURN t;

// View columns of each table
MATCH (t:Table)-[:HAS_COLUMN]->(c:Column)
RETURN t.name, collect(c.name);

// View foreign keys
MATCH (c1:Column)-[:FOREIGN_KEY]->(c2:Column)
RETURN c1.name, c2.name;

Then if you want to see the visual representation of the Graph(database), then go to the following link (ensure the GraphDB instance is running in Neo4j): http://localhost:7474, Credentials: neo4j / password (Parthib@0103)
